Station, this is Houston,
are you ready for the event?
Houston,
this is the International Space Station,
we are ready for the event.
Welcome to the Expedition 62/63
Change of Command Ceremony.
We, since there is...
The key is a nice touch.
-...great work...
I really like that tradition.
It's a physical thing
that the previous commander
hands to the new commander,
and it's almost just like this relief.
Okay, I had it, you got it.
It's with great honor and pride
that I take command
of the International Space Station,
we're receiving
the Space Station in great order.
Much thanks to you and the excellent work
of the Expedition 62 crew.
So, on behalf of Expedition 63,
thank you very much and we have the con.
That's what I really like about,
actually physically
taking control of the key.
It's a daily reminder
that you are the commander
of the International Space Station,
and with this key
comes all of the weight of command.
It was the end of this
seven-month mission for me,
nine-month mission for Drew,
during the whole unfolding
of the global pandemic.
And the next human
that we are going to see
was Chris Cassidy,
and his two Russian cosmonaut colleagues.
Learned is not to get in the way of...
We were so excited about this overlap
because it just suddenly
changed the atmosphere.
Hey, guys, what's going on?
And Chris, of course, was...
- Where'd you get those?
-...in the US segment with us...
- I just...
...and Chris was so much fun
on orbit. We had such a great time.
- Okay. Now, we have...
...this is Morgan versus Cassidy,
and I see they've opened their packets,
and they're starting
to eject the pudding.
Oh, and Cassidy's loose, Cassidy's loose.
- Okay, wait, Chris, you can't...
...you can't eat it yet because look...
Go easy.
- Oh, man, I missed it.
- Oh, man.
Let's see what Drew is up to.
He's running on the wall.
Chris of course was a vet,
he knew how to navigate around,
it was a familiar territory for him.
What day is it, Drew?
How many days until undock?
Two days.
Two days?
- Two days to undock.
I'm tryna cram in the workouts.
What are you gonna be doing
in two days, Jessica?
We're gonna be fighting
to stand up against gravity.
Dude, we haven't talked about
AMS EVAs yet.
No. No, we haven't.
We were constantly wondering, like,
"Boy, I hope... I know this is hard
for Chris to watch because he was..."
Because we knew that you were part
of the development from the beginning.
That you had put hours,
and hours of effort and expertise,
into developing it.
And then,
you know, Luca and I,
- two clowns show up.
- Yeah.
We just started working
into the training there at the end,
and then here.
You know, both of us had been
mentored by you over the years,
and now here we were doing it,
and you know, you're on the ground,
- and...
- It was, it was, it was, uh...
You know, I gotta admit
when I realized
that we were switching, before you guys
left Houston, I was kind of like,
"Man, bummer." But I got
quickly past it you know,
and felt really good
about you guys doing it
'cause we all
worked together so much.
And I was just fired up
for you guys to get out there and...
and crank away and get it done.
- Good job.
- It makes me feel a lot better
- knowing you're here.
Okay. It's April 16th, it's departure day,
Jessica and I are packing things up.
Chris is, getting things
squared away in his
- crew quarters.
- My crew quarters.
Getting it all...
- Shipshape.
Shipshape, getting it...
Making it a home.
And Jessica, what are you up to?
Just finishing up
my last organization of my CQ.
All right.
Everybody's there.
It's our last PFC all together.
The hardest part of being up here
was being away from you guys.
But soon I'll be home and we'll be...
I will, I'll be able to
hug and kiss you again.
And things will gradually start
to get back to normal.
We're coming to an end
after nine months. It's hard to believe.
I wanted to let you guys know
that I love you very much.
The two most dangerous
parts of the mission
are the launch and the landing,
but this is a really,
really reliable vehicle
that I'm flying on,
so you don't have to worry about it.
NASA astronauts
Andrew Morgan and Jessica Meir
-are preparing for their journey home.
- Talk to you soon.
Chris Cassidy,
the new commander
of the International Space Station,
will stay behind
to live and work on the station
along with Anatoly Ivanishin
and Ivan Vagner.
And the hatch
is now closed on the Soyuz.
Hatch is closed. Copy.
We are starting procedure.
D17, are you ready?
I copy.
Ready.
And we have undocking
of the Soyuz MS-15 spacecraft
at 8:53 and 30 seconds p.m. central time.
Soyuz MS-15 and its crew are flying free.
One step closer
on their way back home to Earth.
Being in space
and looking down at the Earth,
it gives you that perspective.
You just... It's forced upon you,
to see how connected everything is.
And especially with the gravity
of everything that was going on
on the planet during our mission.
We had the global pandemic
unfold in front of our very eyes,
and something that was affecting
7.5 billion people on the planet,
and three of us up there in space
not affected by it.
That was really a bit surreal
for us to wrap our heads around.
Okay. First haircut in space.
So Anatoly and Ivan are on
the Russian side of the space station
doing experiments and maintenance
as I’m doing the same thing on our side.
Hey Chris,
if you want some guidance,
we're happy to help you.
Sure. Hi, Sarah
and Sarah. Let's go for it.
BioMole, Swab DNA, Extraction Kit.
If you could just
go ahead and finish
-pipetting these last two samples.
For the past twenty years,
we’ve been monitoring how the human body,
and scientific processes are affected
in space that not only will teach us
how to live in zero gravity,
but how life can be better on Earth.
That’s what it looks like,
with the little plants
growing inside there.
We’re ending the experiment today,
bagging them up for a return to Earth.
Now to the Japanese Experiment Module.
Please release
the handle and open the inner hatch.
Open the inner hatch.
The smell of space.
Just like the shoulders
that we’re standing on,
Apollo, Gemini, and Mercury.
A team of people allowing us to live
for twenty continuous years
onboard the space station.
It's neat to be here,
getting this whole system robust
to the point where the next
generation of explorers can live
normal daily life in space.
Now, go ahead,
and squirt the juice in there.
It’s on to the
next phase of history.
Who knows what that next chapter will be,
but that’s what our crew
will be helping to write.
Testing, hello, everybody,
test, test, test, test, test, test.
Much better, now we can hear ya.
- Are there people there?
Oh, ya.
There are people here...
...you wanna see 'em?
-Hello, everybody.
Yeah!
There we go. Whoo-hoo!
Brownie and I were in Afghanistan
together my second time there,
and we just kind of bonded.
And Peggy's here.
All right! Hey! Hey, babe.
Well, Brownie.
I gotta start out by saying,
not coronavirus,
or not a trip to space could prevent me
from being and sharing this day with you,
so here we go, my friend.
Brownie, would you please repeat after me.
"I take you...
"...to be my constant friend.
"To be your faithful partner
in sickness and in health.
"And to cherish you both
in this life and in the next.
"And cherish you both
"Please put the ring on his finger
and repeat after me.
"I give you this ring
as a token of my promise.
"Wear it, think of it,
and know that I love you.
"Wear it, think of me,
"By the power invested in me
and by the state of Florida,
"I now pronounce you husband and wife.
You now may kiss the bride!"
During my six month stay
on the space station,
SpaceX's first crewed rocket Demo-2
will attempt to launch on the 27th of May.
Demo-2 will be piloted by NASA astronauts
Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley,
close friends of mine.
For me, you know it started
as a love of flight and airplanes
and an interest in space,
and then I was lucky enough
to get to pursue it,
as a fighter pilot in the Marines
and then as a test pilot.
And was able to get to fly
a space shuttle a couple times as well.
You know, Bob and I are extremely excited
to kind of put Dragon through its paces
in space and get to
the International Space Station again.
And by the way,
this is as excited as Bob gets.
- So, this is... It's gonna be fun.
When they handed us the opportunity,
or selected us to be the test pilots
on the first flight
of the Crew Dragon, it’s just...
You know, you wait multiple careers.
It’s a once in a generational opportunity.
In terms of commentating,
doing the mission coverage,
DM2 will be the biggest thing
I’ve ever done...
- Very excited. We're finally...
...by far.
...sending humans...
It’ll be the first time
we’ve launched people to space
from the US since the shuttle landed.
The ultimate goal is so spaceflight
isn’t just for a government astronaut.
We want spaceflight to be
for as many people as possible,
to make it so
companies are sending people,
and hardware and experiments up there.
And so you have just hopefully
this explosion in the population
of people that have been to outer space.
It's Saturday May 9th,
so that puts us, like,
20 days away
from launching on SpaceX.
I just. I'm really excited,
kind of proud of working
at NASA at this...
at this juncture. The eve, so to speak,
of launching people from Florida again.
It's even more exciting for me
'cause I know the two guys
that are flying in there.
And I'll greet them, there's the hatch...
right down there. Through that hatch,
they'll come through,
and we'll have a welcome ceremony,
and congratulate them, and hug them,
and it's just gonna be really neat.
Hello, my name is Doug Hurley, I'm a major
in the United States Marine Corps,
and I was born and raised
in Apalachin, New York.
And I'm... I was currently
an F-18 test pilot
at Naval Air Station Patuxent River,
and I have a degree
from Tulane University.
Chris has been here
almost as long as I have,
you know, a 20-year career.
I'm Chris Cassidy from York, Maine,
and I'm really motivated
to be part of the NASA team
and participate...
-You never forget your first flight...
There you go.
and we were really lucky
to get to fly together in STS-127.
- Hi, Doug.
- Hey, buddy.
Good config
for the burner I heard.
- Yeah.
You did it. All right.
We're gonna do our first homes burn.
So happy to be here with you guys.
We were first time flyers,
you know...
...we really got thrown
into the fire so to speak,
as far as responsibilities.
One, because I was the pilot,
and the other for Chris
because he was gonna do three spacewalks.
You work so hard to get to that point
where you’re actually on a space mission.
In a sense,
your whole professional career,
you know, leads you to that point.
- Hello, from SpaceX headquarters.
My name is Dan Huot.
We're here for this historic launch
There is our first look in the room.
There's astronaut Doug Hurley.
getting into his spacesuit.
And there's a wider shot,
you can see astronaut Bob Behnken
also in view now.
Today's mission
will be Crew Dragon's first test
with humans on board.
With our partners at SpaceX,
we usher in the commercial crew era
of American spaceflight.
NASA's
original astronauts were test pilots,
and I definitely do feel
a reach back to that era.
And there they are.
This is the beginning
of this next era of space exploration.
You can see some clouds starting
to gather over launch complex 39A.
Weather operators
are about to kick off their final checks
- on wind speeds at the pad.
We are currently no go
on launch weather.
They have insight...
- In one minute,
we're directly over to JSC.
Going to get the picture in more.
We were able to get
a couple of images down
from the current Expedition 63
Commander Chris Cassidy.
This picture is of that pad
at the Kennedy Space Center
with Bob and Doug still on the launch pad.
Eagle eye for Chris Cassidy to snap these.
Great pictures.
Right over the pad. Come on.
Dragon launch director
at CAPCOM 1, comm check.
Good afternoon, Mike, loud and clear.
I have you the same,
man, good afternoon.
This weather is go
at this time.
Dragon copy, go weather.
Dragon SpaceX, go for launch.
- Yeah! Get some!
Bob, Doug,
know that we're with you,
have an amazing flight,
and enjoy those views
of our beautiful planet.
T-minus 15 seconds.
SpaceX Dragon.
We're go for launch.
Let's light this candle.
Here we go.
Seven, six, five,
four, three, two, one.
America has launched!
And so rises a new era
of American spaceflight,
and with it the ambitions
of a new generation continuing the dream.
Twenty seconds
into flight stage propulsion,
-it is nominal.
- Here we go. We're going to the cupola.
SpaceX Dragon, on the big loop
for the handling qualities.
It flew really well, very crisp.
So my congratulations
to the folks in Hawthorne.
There they are. That's what?
Two-hundred meters from the Space Station.
Houston and Station
are now go for docking.
Dragon SpaceX
docking sequence is complete.
The crew of Expedition 63
is honored to welcome Dragon,
and the commercial crew program.
Welcome aboard
the International Space Station.
Bob and Doug, I'm glad to have you
as part of the crew, welcome.
- Thank you, Chris.
- We have a Dragon.
Yeah!
What's up, dawgs?
How you doing?
- How you doing?
Hello.
I don't know if I got a good angle here?
- You got it, what's going on?
- All right.
- Great to see you.
- Great to see you, buddy.
- Thank you.
- Yup, welcome aboard.
- Great to see you.
Watch your head.
Nice to see you. Great job.
How are ya?
- Good to be back.
- Welcome.
This the new dress code?
Now that you're the boss man.
Leaving NASA, like...
It's a hard place to leave.
- Right?
Yeah.
I mean, I spent, up until now,
my entire professional career at NASA.
Where are you headed?
Yeah, so I’m going over
to Intuitive Machines,
and they’ve won several contracts
for delivering hardware to the moon.
We've actually got our first mission
at the end of this year.
Where we're building a Lunar Lander,
and it's going to launch
on a Falcon 9, a SpaceX rocket,
and go land on the moon.
Go straight to the moon.
I mean, what else is there to do?
The chance to do something
totally new, you know,
that nobody’s ever done commercially...
it’s exciting stuff.
The end of an era.
Truly, the end of an era.
So it’s a little bittersweet to see it go.
Yeah. Yeah, it sure is.
For the AMS spacewalks,
I was Brian Mader's apprentice.
He showed me how to design
and plan and build a spacewalk.
And in fact, I have a junior person
that I'm training in a similar fashion,
so really, the torch has been passed.
We are getting ready
to do some battery EVAs,
spacewalks up on Station.
Actually, Chris Cassidy
is gonna be helping us out with those.
So, yeah, the guy likes them
and we certainly like
when he does our spacewalks.
They get done well, and get done quickly.
He makes it look easy.
I'm so glad to not only have him up there
and doing spacewalks, but like,
getting to work with him, you know.
Getting to kinda do it with him.
On these spacewalks,
we’re replacing older-generation batteries
with new generation batteries.
We’re generating electricity
with our solar arrays.
For 45 minutes of the orbit,
we’re charging those batteries,
and then we’re depleting the batteries
in the dark side of the orbit,
and just continue to do that,
sixteen orbits a day.
They’re put through a lot of stress.
Eventually, the battery's gonna give out,
and then you’re without electricity
for half of the orbit,
and that’s not a place you want to be.
We call the days leading
up to the spacewalk, A Road to EVA.
- Okay. This is always the fun part.
Yeah.
All right. Bob, mini workstation...
You're given time
on the calendar to review the procedure,
and choreograph your moves,
you and your buddy.
- Small...
To a BGT...
...to BGT number two.
Waiting for two minutes,
and then taking the fan switch to "off".
But it all hits the night before.
It's something that your doctor
has talked to you about
because it is very common for people
not to sleep well or at all.
Hey, Chris,
once you get that cap on,
-we recommend our 618 and 619...
You cannot unlock the rack,
-and remove the battery...
...or 618 and 671.
-and the cap.
...and proceed...
You're going in your head
all of the things you gotta do,
don't forget to do that,
don't forget to do...
Fairly thoroughly.
We're P1 and P2r.
To not sleep the night before
is a bad idea because it is a long day.
Okay. Sun going down.
As soon as you wake up it's EVA day.
- You sleep okay, Chris?
- I did, yeah.
Me, too.
You grab a cup of coffee,
and you get some food.
But other than that,
you're immediately into EVA prep.
I’m getting goosebumps right now,
just because it’s real.
Hey, Chris,
comm check, can you hear me?
Loud and clear.
Airlock Houston,
good morning. Chris and Bob, good morning.
Good morning.
Complete for EV2.
EV1 complete as well.
Good luck guys, have fun.
Thanks, Doug.
Thanks a lot.
My last spacewalk
was seven years ago,
so I've thought a lot about this moment.
In the Navy, we say sailors
are meant to be at sea.
I feel that way about astronauts.
Astronauts are meant to be in space.
We are astronauts to fulfill that desire
to explore and do the mission.
Nothing can prepare you
for when you’re out there
and experiencing it, and feeling it.
And your heartbeat
is thumping inside your spacesuit,
and you’re seeing the ground go by.
Chris,
you're looking for handrail 7325.
It's adjacent to battery alpha.
You'll stow the ORU bag there.
For EVAs, typically you send
one person out the door
that is an experienced person,
and the other person
is typically less experienced.
That's how we train people,
that's how we get people experienced.
With Chris and Bob,
they're both heavily experienced
EVA crew members.
And so this is an ultimate
Hall of Fame type team.
And for your essay,
the battery you just installed
has good check-outs.
For an update,
you are four hours into the EVA,
and you're about
two hours ahead on the timeline.
It’s a passion
and I love the satisfaction
of working as a team
with your buddy outside,
and your buddies down on the ground.
It was way ahead of schedule.
They just breezed through everything.
It was like watching a masterpiece unfold.
When you and your partner
are kind of moving along.
He could tell when I was ready to grab,
I could tell when he was ready to grab.
When you’re really in sync, it certainly
is a bit of a ballet when it’s happening.
Copy and big picture with that,
we're done with the install,
and we're gonna move into clean up.
And we just got that go Chris,
you can start heading towards the airlock.
I'll turn you over to Doug.
Thank you for the work.
With Chris,
to be able to do four EVAs
with Bob and knock it out of the park,
and then get your individual tally
up to ten spacewalks is, yeah,
if I was gonna script it that's probably
how I would do it if it were me.
If it's my last mission that I ever
fly in space I'll be a very happy camper
'cause it was just a really,
really special time.
Thanks, buddy.
See you.
You guys were great.
See you guys. Take care. Good luck.
Dragon departing.
Dragon, SpaceX. Separation confirmed.
Chris we just
can’t thank you enough.
It’s been an honor and a privilege
to be part of Expedition 63.
It’s been a great two months,
and we appreciate
all you’ve done to help us,
prove out Dragon on its maiden flight.
And with that,
Bob and Doug have concluded their stay
aboard the International Space Station.
They’re on their way back to planet Earth.
To spend two months
on the International Space Station
with the one of the greatest officers,
crewmates, astronauts, Chris Cassidy,
just was a real pleasure for both of us.
And I'm sure Bob will talk about
the spacewalks, but just
to see those two work,
out on the International Space Station,
you're not gonna
see anything like that again.
It was just amazing to be part of that.
Just kind of soaking it all in,
and reflecting on Earth,
reflecting on where we are,
realizing how fortunate,
we are to be here as astronauts.
I was thinking about my dad.
He saw the first two missions
and loved following along,
and he would be doing the same thing
right now if he could.
One of the planets
was shining really brightly.
Distinct amongst
all the blackness of space.
It just made me feel like
he was out there somewhere,
watching over the mission.
He was a man
who was much better
at talking about his feelings than I am.
I tend to sort of hold my feelings in,
and he taught me that letting your
feelings be known is a healthy thing.
I've been in the Navy,
and the government for 28 years,
and got to do some really cool stuff
in the SEAL teams and here at NASA.
None of it I take for granted, you know,
and every bit of it has been special.
It's sometimes hard to believe.
Almost like,
"Did I really live that life?"
I never really thought, "Oh, I'm putting
my life on the line for my mission."
My family of course thought that way.
I was really focused on,
"Okay, what’s next? What’s our mission?
How can we execute that?"
You’re just kind of waiting
for the mission to pull you
in different directions.
The biggest challenge for me right now
is just not feeling like I have control
of my own timeframe, my own life.
I’m starting to think about what’s next.
So it's, let's see, 7:45 at night.
My last few minutes on the space station.
Gonna take one final stroll...
through the modules.
Take care, buddy.
There's Kate.
Oh, there's Sergey, ready to go.
I've got it.
See you.
All right.
Okay.
Good evening and welcome
to the International Space Station
Flight Control Room.
The MS-16 Soyuz is currently
still docked to the Russian Poisk module
of the International Space Station,
but not for long.
We are standing by
for start the activation.
Undocking.
We're right on time at 6:32 p.m.,
-since the station are...
There you go.
-...are 263 miles above the ground...
There they go, see?
There you see. Undocking.
Oh, wow.
Obviously, one of the two
scariest parts of a mission,
the takeoff and the landing.
Your heart pounds.
You never get over that.
With his landing
coming up at 9:55 p.m. central today,
Cassidy will have spent a total
of three hundred and seventy-eight days
in space over his three space missions,
putting him at fifth place
on the list of most time spent
in space by a US astronaut.
You know, you say goodbye
to your crewmates, get in the Soyuz.
From that moment until touchdown
is about five and a half, six hours.
Getting the re-entry angle right
is a critical part of the equation.
If you have a too steep of an angle,
the heat will be too hot,
and the equipment
and the people aren't gonna make it.
If you take it too shallow,
you might potentially
skip off the atmosphere,
and have the rest of your life to think
about what you did wrong.
We just want him to get down safely,
and be back here on Earth with us. Yeah.
We get to this point
called the deorbit burn.
And from there until the ground,
it's just a lot of stuff happening.
You start impacting the atmosphere.
The G-force pushing you into your seat,
three times the force of gravity.
It's difficult to lift your arms up,
difficult to lift your head,
a little hard to breathe.
It feels like the whole thing
is tumbling out of control.
You lose contact. You can't talk
to the ground, they can't talk to you.
As the Soyuz
makes its way back towards earth,
the parachutes will jettison,
and make way
for the 3,281-foot main parachute,
which slows the Soyuz down
to about 15.6 miles per hour.
Just wanted to say hi everyone.
- Hi, Pegg.
Cool.
Chloe in the back.
No video yet,
so we are relying on reports.
from the landing team
who is gathering at the landing site.
Yeah. This is maddening,
normally you see them.
This is taking longer
than it normally would.
Come on, I hope everything's okay.
It's just very nerve racking.
It's like holding your breath
until they're safely on the ground.
We don’t have
audio connections
with the crew at the moment.
All parameters are nominal.
The combined propulsion systems...
it's 4519 meters.
Dean's here
on the ground hearing from the forces,
that the landing team that is
gathering at the landing site,
that one of them does now have
the crew in sight...
There it is.
Here we go.
...and everything is looking nominal.
- Oh, hallelujah.
Oh, wow.
Oh, there we go.
Coming down, coming down,
he's almost there.
The ignition will prepare
to fire six solid propellant engines,
and slow the Soyuz down to five feet
per second, or about 3.5 miles per hour.
Bingo!
Touchdown.
- Touchdown. Yay!
And you can see,
Soyuz has now touched down in Kazakhstan.
-9:54 p.m. central time.
Look at the cloud of dust.
After 196 days in space,
3,136 orbits, and 83 million miles,
Chris Cassidy, Anatoly Ivanishin,
and Ivan Vagner are home.
That is awesome.
Welcome home, Chris!
- That's Chris.
Yeah.
Oh, look. He looks great.
Whoo!
All right.
Let's move out of the way here.
How does it feel, brother?
Never gets old, man.
Thursday night, we went out
to Ellington Field and watched him land.
Harder than
the six months being separated
was the two weeks of quarantine
after I got home and couldn’t be
with Peggy and my family.
So I have medical tests,
blood work, MRI exams.
Scanning your body and bones and balance.
All working really, really well,
it's been what,
a week, ten days, nine days.
Two hours of rehab
every single day in the gym.
And Wednesday
is the official day when it’s all over.
All right, babe.
- Can you feel that thing?
- Oh, yeah, big time.
My guy.
You just can't beat coming home.
It feels so awesome to have,
like, just the sun shining.
One of the things you notice
when people come back from space
is they’re all pale.
We haven’t really been exposed
to the sun for six months,
and so I’m just happy
to be standing beneath it.
I'm surprised
the water isn't colder.
It's a nice temperature.
It is nice.
I just love being on the ocean
and the smell of it.
That’s one thing
we don’t have in space is the smells.
In hindsight of this whole mission,
with being the only US crew member
there for most of the time,
welcoming Bob and Doug and SpaceX,
and then being part of four spacewalks,
it made me realize, like, it all...
Everything works out for a reason.
Like, I was supposed
to be on this mission.
I was supposed to be
right here at this time.
Drew. What's up, dude?
How are you? You look good.
- Good to see you, man.
You, too.
Man, it seems like
it's been forever since I've seen you.
Yeah.
Good haircut.
Yeah, you too.
- You look like you're ready for...
It could be tighter, though.
Yeah, so I've been back
from the space station
for a little while, so,
just gotta figure out what's next in life.
It's the favorite subject
of anybody on the last
couple weeks of a mission, right?
Right.
- When you're up there, you're like,
"Oh, my God, what am I
gonna do when I get back?"
But I've made the decision
to retire from NASA.
And that's...
It's hard for me to say that, you know.
I've been 17 years
of my life as an astronaut,
and had amazing experiences.
And part of me doesn't wanna let that go.
But it's also, having been in management,
I know that there's a time,
and I think now is a good time for me
to move on
and allow the next generation...
to sort of pick it up,
and that's where you are and...
You know, you’re kind of
mid-career right now
with a ton of experience, and...
it’ll be great to see
whatever happens, whatever you’re...
You know, as astronauts we never know
when our last mission is, right? Like...
We're, like, at this...
I've just heard it described many times
as an inflection point in space history,
where we have all these exciting things
going at once.
And then there's the Artemis program,
and of course that would be very exciting.
It's still a number of years away,
and... but I mean, I think it's...
in my career lifetime.
So, yeah, I think about that.
But I don't wanna think about it too much.
Those missions will be few
and far between, but it's...
That's pretty exciting
to be a part of that.
Well, man, it's been great
having this opportunity to sit down.
We haven’t seen each other
since I got back,
so it was just really, really cool
to spend some time with you today.
It feels like
we are at a crossroad right now...
and wherever I look,
there are opportunities and things to do.
Right now, I'm in the team
that is designing Gateway.
Which is the habitat
that will go around the moon.
Once the habitat is made
and done and is in orbit,
to be 100 percent honest
it will be less important that I go.
But if it's my destiny to fly
into the habitat and to test
what we are building right now
and to open the road for future explorers,
then, hey, and dreaming is still legal,
and I think it's actually very,
very, very important to keep doing it.
So we are gonna try and land
where the bottom of the light
touches the dark.
- You'll be...
- Remember my 56th birthday.
56th birthday, that's right.
We're gonna take you to the moon
for your 56th birthday.
I'm wildly excited
about being a part of Artemis.
Something my team's gonna be making,
something I'm going to physically touch
is going to end up
on the surface of the moon,
touching moon dust.
I don't even know
how to put that excitement in words.
I think everyone in the office
would love to be sitting
in the flight director chair,
when the first woman
and next man set foot on the moon.
I think I probably
came along a little too early
to be the person
who gets to sit in that chair,
but I intend to be in the building.
Jessica Meir.
People ask me all the time,
"Oh, so, you're gonna be the first
woman on the moon.
And how does it feel to know that?"
You know, certainly not something I know,
we don't know who that person will be yet.
But to think that I probably know,
and am a close friend or colleague
with one of these people
that will be the one going back
to the moon, that is incredibly exciting.
Jessica Watkins.
I think that it's important
for a woman to go to the moon
because human space flight is for all.
And I hope that there are young kids,
young girls, young girls of color
that are able to see themselves
in a role like this.
I wanna get us to Mars.
That's there since I was a kid.
I’m working on VASIMR.
It's a plasma rocket...
and it's a very viable method
to get us to Mars a whole lot quicker.
That's something
I’d like to do before I retire.
I really have loved my time
at NASA and as an astronaut,
and life will just unfold.
Now, I don't know what the next
opportunity is going to be
as I step into the world...
but it never stops being exciting.